
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="tenneco_unix_team_work_to_do">Tenneco Unix team work to do</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Dead partition mobility script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> cluster script ( CI )</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Update / correct /etc/exports file on all servers. - remove entries that are no longer required for servers and exported files</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Document average service times from all unix servers. (sar-d)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Docuemntation (hostname,virtual/phys,vio/vmware,array,application)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement cleaning up /home filesystem on NIM post install cleanup script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Reconfigure Production EDI <abbr title="File Transfer Protocol">FTP</abbr> cluster.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> NFS softmount timeout / sshd startup.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=unix:adauthentication" class="wikilink1" title="unix:adauthentication">Research AD authentication for Unix users.</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Enable time synchronization <strong>ntpdate</strong> in RC scripts or CRON.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Design and implement I/O load balancing on Virtual <abbr title="Small Computer System Interface">SCSI</abbr> guests.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Find out and list mirrored logical volumes on SAN.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Find out who does ifconfigs on servers. erasent ?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Migrate pahrdb01, qeerdb01, qaerdb01 to boot from VIO disks.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Consolidated systems and storage inventory.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Do not rely completely on sendmail to send alerts. Have syslog send a trap for standard scripts.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Develop, test and implement Linux mksysb.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Report sudo aging</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Research VMcontrol and Active memory expansion.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Move reporting tasks to a non-privileged user.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> We need a script to parse vhost → vio server names.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install a standard version of OpenSSL and OpenSSH</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Migrate storage from 146G LUNs to 34G/102G LUNs for sehrdb01 and dehrdb99.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement a consolidated inventory of unix servers, model, ser number, storage, san allocated, used and location. We should use /var/adm/.information</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Audit /etc/profile, /etc/environment, /root/.profile - change the “PATH” variable .</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove sulog script - that is redundant as sudo rolled out.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement NOEXEC in sudo to prevent shell escapes from known commands like “vi”. ( For a very far future )</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install and maintain samhain for system files.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Re-write rpt_config.sh as a generic one.</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Install latest cfg2html versions for <code>hpux AIX redhat SuSE CentOS</code></div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Modify / Re-write dr.sh</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Improve VG creation.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Improve filesystem creation.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Simplify the script.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Eliminate the need for rsh for BCV backups. ( PTA TA2 ). Examine .rhosts for root on all servers.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Too many cron jobs on servers …. Standardize and remove the unwanted. Consolidate some of the housekeeping jobs.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement a documentation site on the Interexion data-centre and rsync the contents.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Document and display all physical servers and their network ports</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Document all unix users and groups in one page and the command to re-create them if required.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Turn off sendmail from all servers.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> taitc118 NIM server&#039;s network is kind of a mess. Fix it .</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On AIX, make sure we have ssh started right after TCP/IP so that we can turn off telnet.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> VIO server&#039;s /etc/profile is to be tuned.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement historical data display on Lpar documentation.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement the new UCRT summary page and new cfg2html. Write a new one using the allhosts file.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Write a lsdiskcfg equivalent to VIO networking configuration.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>/prod/images/scripts</strong> to be the master copy of all shell scripts. Install a revision control system and manage the versions that way.</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
<strong> Scripts to modify and how </strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Work on the Redhat repository and replace them with the default one cobbler installed.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Modify <strong>/usr/local/scripts/stales.sh</strong> </div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Send email for HPUX as well.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Use sendmail with correct return path.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
<strong> Done List </strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Figure out the unused disks on taitc103. Removed,  12 Raid1 disks returned to GIOS Storage Team. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Write up patching procedure for Redhat - do it once.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Test the redhat upgrade process. - Use paavap02 - install with 6.2 and upgrade to 6.3 - This is not possible, find an alternative.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Research and integrate Bladecentres in HMC.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Migrate paitap01 → paitap02 and move pablsv02 to the HS21 blade.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> SNMP configuration</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Solaris 8</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> AIX</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Make sure rsyslog is correctly configured to goto unixlogs on all servers.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Bladecentre SAN switch upgrades.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Move the lpar2rrd workload from qehrdb01 to penmsv01.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Fix mksysb on all servers and standardize the script</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Fix NTP and standardize configuration.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Have a script that checks for printQs status and enable them if found down &amp; pingable [ Logit ].</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Maintain a unix hosts database.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> House keep /var/adm/wtmp if it grows more than 100Meg.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Document server decomm procedure.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Document server rename procedure.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> New AIX/VIOS installs needs sysinter service enabled.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Make sure the special dr.sh on all VIO servers.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install a temporary NIM server at Interexion.<pre class="code">penmsv01 - 10.56.1.*
penmsv01bck - 10.56.12.*</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Document the I/O relationship between VIOS and guests</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Find root cause of tasew007/8 Permanent Hardware errors on hdisks from Clariion. ( Moon has to unmap the VCM device )</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> LPAR2RRD error on taprvio6, taprvio15,18 etc</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Consolidate the create alt_disk_copy script</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> NIM Investigate tftpboot time. ( Tweak in place )</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Update getconsole database</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Re-build pablsv01 as pglgsv01.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Migrate <code>/edipro /patches /taediarch</code> from tedv2e01&#039;s rootvg.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Migrate dggtdb01 to vio60/70.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Add a wiki page  for all SAN storage for all systems.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Consolidate exclude.rootvg</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Modify post install steps to support Redhat installations.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Migrate boot disks to R5 <code>taprvio18,peerap09</code></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Deploy the new mksysb-dr script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Modify the mksysb script not to rely on hosts file Probably the best idea is to have it on <code>/var/adm/.information</code> file.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Housekeep /var/adm/wtmp</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Point NTP configuration to these network devices.<code>10.1.1.1,10.1.1.2,10.56.0.10 and 10.56.0.11</code></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Modify lsdiskcfg to include pvids.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Run lsvpcfg.sh on all SAN connected servers and push data to wiki in a searchable format.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement a lsvpcfg.sh for MPIO. May be we need SYMCLI on all SAN connected servers.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Setup a housekeeping job to remove files older than 7 days from /var/spool/lpd/qdir and /var/spool/qdaemon.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> LOCK DOWN itocroot OR replace with sudo.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement /var/adm/.information file on all servers and add it to the documentation.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Setup a ddir job for logfiles like “wtmp”.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Document blades, servers, locations and lpars.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> taitc108 - dvds VG  Removed VG and returned three 34 <abbr title="Gigabyte">GB</abbr> disks to GIOS Storage Team</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Documented Disaster Recovery Servers Non Roorvg Volume Group Disk use</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">   - Modify / Re-write dr.sh</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Add AIO information. Done in time for 2013 D.R. Test.  distributed to all servers. - Done - in dr.sh - Chris</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
