
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="cobbler_kickstart">Cobbler / Kickstart</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Cobbler is used to build Redhat systems. It runs on pablsv01</strong>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Cobbler / Kickstart" [1-101] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="process_-_concepts">Process - Concepts</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<strong> Distros </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A distro is a copy of the RHEL installation DVD for a given version.<pre class="code">sudo cobbler distro list
   rhel-5.8-i386
   rhel-5.8-x86_64
   rhel-5.8-xen-i386
   rhel-5.8-xen-x86_64
   rhel-6.3-i386
   rhel-6.3-x86_64
   rhel-6.4-x86_64</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> Kickstart file </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Kickstart profile is used to define how the system needs to be built. It defines, the partition sizes, types, root password etc. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On pablsv01 The kickstart files are stored under<pre class="code">sudo ls -l /var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/tenneco.*
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1574 Nov  3  2012 /var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/tenneco.rhel-5.8-HP.ks
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1550 Nov  4  2012 /var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/tenneco.rhel-5.8.ks
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1586 Nov  3  2012 /var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/tenneco.rhel-6.3-HP.ks
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1562 Nov  2  2012 /var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/tenneco.rhel-6.3.ks
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1562 Aug 13 15:48 /var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/tenneco.rhel-6.4.ks</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> Profiles </strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A profile associates a distro with kickstart<pre class="code">sudo cobbler profile list
   rhel-5.8-i386
   rhel-5.8-x86_64
   rhel-5.8-xen-i386
   rhel-5.8-xen-x86_64
   rhel-6.3-i386
   rhel-6.3-x86_64
   rhel-6.4-x86_64</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> Build Process </strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> We define a system to cobbler this way<pre class="code">sudo cobbler system add \
--name=taqa1a03new \
--profile=rhel-6.4-x86_64 \
--netboot-enabled=False \
--name-servers=10.32.8.53 \
--name-servers-search=amer.int.tenneco.com \
--gateway=10.32.6.1 \
--interface=eth0 \
--management=True \
--static=True \
--mac=00:0c:29:7d:37:90 \
--ip-address=10.32.6.22 \
--netmask=255.255.255.0 \
--server=pablsv01.amer.int.tenneco.com</pre>

<p>
This way we associated a system with a profile.
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> We then create a iso file using cobbler<pre class="code"> sudo cobbler buildiso --systems=&quot;taqa1a03new&quot; --iso=/var/www/html/servers/taqa1a03new.iso</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The iso file is then copied over to a filesystem on taitc118. This filesystem is presented to VMWARE as a datastore.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On the VM, we select this datastore, browse for the iso file and boot from it.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Once booted, the VM downloads packages and the kickstart file from pablsv01 and builds the system.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Process - Concepts" [102-] -->