
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="sas_adapter_-_taprvio160">SAS ADAPTER - taprvio160</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Display SAS Adapters
</p>
<pre class="code"> lsdev -C  |grep sissas </pre>

<p>
Results should be
</p>
<pre class="code">root on taprvio160:/root $ lsdev -C  |grep sissas
sissas0    Available 01-00       PCIe3 RAID SAS Adapter Quad-port 6Gb x8
root on taprvio160:/root $ </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "SAS ADAPTER - taprvio160" [1-283] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="sas_adapter_-_taprvio161">SAS ADAPTER - taprvio161</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Display SAS Adapters
</p>
<pre class="code"> lsdev -C  |grep sissas </pre>

<p>
Results should be
</p>
<pre class="code">root on taprvio161:/root $ lsdev -C  |grep sissas
sissas0    Available 01-00       PCIe3 RAID SAS Adapter Quad-port 6Gb x8
root on taprvio161:/root $ </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "SAS ADAPTER - taprvio161" [284-567] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="sas_adapter_-_tapr1d01">SAS ADAPTER - tapr1d01</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Display SAS Adapters
</p>
<pre class="code"> lsdev -C  |grep sissas </pre>

<p>
Results should be
</p>
<pre class="code">tapr1d01:-TARGET-PTA-SERVER:/home/x1cxs952&gt; lsdev -C  |grep sissas
sissas0    Available 01-00       PCIe3 RAID SAS Adapter Quad-port 6Gb x8
sissas1    Available 05-00       PCIe3 RAID SAS Adapter Quad-port 6Gb x8 </pre>

<p>
Install Firmware on first port on each adapter 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "SAS ADAPTER - tapr1d01" [568-958] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="fireware_installatio_proceedures">FIREWARE INSTALLATIO PROCEEDURES</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
5.1 Microcode Download Procedure-SAS Adapters for AIX
</p>

<p>
Procedure
</p>

<p>
 1) It is advised, but not necessary to stop all applications.
</p>

<p>
 2) Enter diag
</p>

<p>
 3) Select the “Task Selection” from diagnostics menu.
</p>

<p>
 4) Select “Download Microcode” or “Microcode Tasks → Download Microcode”
from “Task Selection” menu.
</p>

<p>
 5) Select all of the SAS Adapters/Controllers that need to be updated from
the list of devices by pressing “Enter”“F7”.
</p>

<p>
“Enter” to continue.
</p>

<p>
 7) Select ”/usr/lib/microcode”.
</p>

<p>
“Enter”
to continue.
</p>

<p>
 9) An “M”“Enter”.
</p>

<p>
 10) The following message will appear on the screen when download is
completed: “…”
</p>

<p>
 11) Exit diagnostics.
</p>

<p>
 12) Verify the code level is <strong>14511900</strong> by typing “lscfg -vl sissas#” for each
SAS device updated. &lt;Where # is the numbersissas device&gt;
</p>
<pre class="code"> &quot;lscfg -vl sissas0 </pre>
<pre class="code"> &quot;lscfg -vl sissas1 </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "FIREWARE INSTALLATIO PROCEEDURES" [959-] -->