
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="backup_the_hmc_management_console_data">Backup the HMC  Management Console Data</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
## Backup the IVN configurations
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> open a web browser to teh HMC and login with the user id hscroot and correct password</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> When the HMC diplays the initial Welcome screen. select HMC Management from eithe window</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The HMC sill display the HMC Management window.  Select Back up management console data</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> The HMC will open a windowdi isplaying Critical Data archife option. Make sure the  Back up to media on local system selected and click Next to continuce</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> The system wil dsiplay an window asking you to select a Media Device.  Selece USB Flash Memory Drive and click OK to continue.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> A windw asking for a descriptsion sill be displayes.  Leave this blank and Click OK to continue.  THie will start the back up process.  The he HMC will thendiskpay a window informing youthat the back up has started and may take soem tiem to complete.  It will update thwi windo with a runnign lock showing the backup elapsed time. </div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> When the Bbackup has been completed the backup in proctess windo will change to a window telling you that the backup has been successfully completed.  At thsi tme click OK to retrun to the HMC Management console screen . </div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
