
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="sas_adapter_-_taprvio160">SAS ADAPTER - taprvio160</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Display SAS Adapters
</p>
<pre class="code"> lsdev -C  |grep sissas </pre>

<p>
Results should be
</p>
<pre class="code">root on taprvio160:/root $ lsdev -C  |grep sissas
sissas0    Available 01-00       PCIe3 RAID SAS Adapter Quad-port 6Gb x8
root on taprvio160:/root $ </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "SAS ADAPTER - taprvio160" [1-283] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="sas_adapter_-_taprvio161">SAS ADAPTER - taprvio161</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Display SAS Adapters
</p>
<pre class="code"> lsdev -C  |grep sissas </pre>

<p>
Results should be
</p>
<pre class="code">root on taprvio161:/root $ lsdev -C  |grep sissas
sissas0    Available 01-00       PCIe3 RAID SAS Adapter Quad-port 6Gb x8
root on taprvio161:/root $ </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "SAS ADAPTER - taprvio161" [284-567] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="sas_adapter_-_tapr1d01">SAS ADAPTER - tapr1d01</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Display SAS Adapters
</p>
<pre class="code"> lsdev -C  |grep sissas </pre>

<p>
Results should be
</p>
<pre class="code">tapr1d01:-TARGET-PTA-SERVER:/home/x1cxs952&gt; lsdev -C  |grep sissas
sissas0    Available 01-00       PCIe3 RAID SAS Adapter Quad-port 6Gb x8
sissas1    Available 05-00       PCIe3 RAID SAS Adapter Quad-port 6Gb x8 </pre>

<p>
Install Firmware on first port on each adapter 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "SAS ADAPTER - tapr1d01" [568-958] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="firmware_installation_proceedures">FIRMWARE INSTALLATION PROCEEDURES</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Microcode Download Procedure-SAS Adapters for AIX
</p>

<p>
Procedure:
</p>

<p>
1) It is advised, but not necessary to stop all applications.
</p>

<p>
2) Enter diag.
</p>

<p>
3) Select the “Task Selection” from diagnostics menu.
</p>

<p>
4) Select “Download Microcode” or “Microcode Tasks → Download Microcode”
from “Task Selection” menu.
</p>

<p>
5) Select all of the SAS Adapters/Controllers that need to be updated from
the list of devices by pressing “Enter”.  The devices will be displayed assissas#,
 where # is the number of the device.  Press “F7”.
</p>

<p>
6) A dialogue box will be displayed on screen.  Press “Enter” to continue.
</p>

<p>
7) Select ”/usr/lib/microcode”.
</p>

<p>
8) A dialogue box will may be displayed on screen.  It will state that the
current microcode level on the adapter is not in the /usr/lib/microcode
directory.  This is acceptable as you will be flashing new microcode onto the
adapter.  Also, incorrect code will automatically be rejected.  Press “Enter”
to continue.
</p>

<p>
9) An “M” will be displayed next to the latest level of microcode in the /usr
/lib/microcode directory.  Select that level and press “Enter”.
</p>

<p>
10) The following message will appear on the screen when download is
completed: “Microcode download complete successfully.  The current microcode
level for the devicesissas# is …..  Please run diagnostics on the adapter to
ensure that it is functioning properly.”  DO NOT run diagnostics on the device
at this time.
</p>

<p>
11) Exit diagnostics.
</p>

<p>
12) Verify the code level is <strong>14511900</strong> by typing “lscfg -vl sissas#” for each
SAS device updated. &lt;Where # is the numbersissas device&gt;
</p>
<pre class="code"> &quot;lscfg -vl sissas0 </pre>
<pre class="code"> &quot;lscfg -vl sissas1 </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "FIRMWARE INSTALLATION PROCEEDURES" [959-] -->