
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="system_build_notes">System Build Notes</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
As we are only buying IBM these days, these notes are limited to the installation of IBM P Series systems OR blades.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "System Build Notes" [1-152] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="racking_the_system">Racking the system</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Depending on the type of the system, either the Vendor or the Unix team is supposed to rack the system.
</p>

<p>
In case of blades, insert the blade into an empty slot in the bladecentre.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Racking the system" [153-364] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="cabling_details">Cabling details</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> IBM P series systems may be lpared. Please use the following details for networking cabling and VLANs</div>
<ol>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Each frame need two Management network connections for the two HMCs in house tgprhmc2 and taitc051.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> A physical lpar that is scheduled to run European applications will need 10.32.50/24 (front end), 10.32.51/24(bck) and 10.32.60/24 (backup) VLANs. Each VLAN needs 2 connections to two different switch modules in the core network and a NIB-etherchannel will be configured on AIX between them.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> A physical lpar that is scheduled to run North American applications will need 10.0.48/24 (front end), 10.0.49/24(bck) and 10.32.60/24 (backup) VLANs. Each VLAN need 2 connections to two different switch modules in the core network and a NIB-etherchannel will be configured on AIX between them.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Each physical lpar need two SAN connections. Both the SAN connections can not be taken out of a dual HBA as that will introduce a single point of failure. Each SAN cable must go through a different switch to the FA. Exception is for the DMX4 which is directly attached.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Power on </div>
<ol>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> With the HMC connections plugged in, turn on the frame. This will activate the Service Processor that controls the IBM hypervisor on each frame and try to register to the HMC. When the frame pops up in the HMC <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr>, reset the default passwords to abcd1234 and add them to the HMC. Apply the same password and repeat the steps on the second HMC.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> The preferable system name is Server-type-model-SerNo i.e. Server-9117-MMA-1093F0. Some systems may be named with the applications if the whole frame is dedicated to a specific application.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Create the lpars based on the documentation / plan.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install operating system</div>
<ol>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Add the system to the console database <pre class="code">vi /prod/images/etc/unix_sys_console</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Register the system to the NIM server <pre class="code"> smitty nim </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Open a session to the system console from pgnmsv01 <pre class="code">/usr/local/scripts/getconsole hostname</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Allocate resources and kick off a network installation<pre class="code">smitty nim_bosinst</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Boot the lpar to SMS <pre class="code">Using the HMC or HMC CLI, Activate the lpar and boot it to SMS </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> From the system console, Navigate to the network boot configuration </div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Disable spanning tree protocol from adapter configuration</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Configure NIM server and Client addresses.</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Initiate a network boot</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Continue <abbr title="Operating System">OS</abbr> installation</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Cabling details" [365-] -->