
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="decommission_unix_servers">Decommission Unix servers</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create change control, get approval and do all the necessary paperwork.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Send ticket to Openview team to stop monitoring the server.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Send ticket to Netbackup team to stop backing up the server.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Send ticket to GIOS Operations Entitlement to remove the server from Entitlement database.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unmount NFS mounts from clients when necessary and unexport the filesytems.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Return the SAN storage after clearing PVIDs and destroying the VGDA. Send a ticket for cables reclamation and any storage zones etc to delete.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove OV client<pre class="code">sudo /usr/local/scripts/removeOV</pre>

<p>
Send a ticket to OV team to remove it from Openview and NNM.
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove CDs/Tape media from the server.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Shutdown the Operating system.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove the host from <code>pgnmsv01:/prod/images/etc/unix_sys_console</code></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove the host from <code>pgnmsv01:/prod/images/nimserver-utilities/Disaster.Recovery.List</code></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove the host from <code>penmsv01:/prod/images/nimserver-utilities/Disaster.Recovery.List</code></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove the host from PowerVM monitoring / LPAR2RRD.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove the LPAR/Blade/Frame as applicable.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove the HMC/ILO network/VMWare as applicable.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unrack where applicable.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Request to remove from hardware maintenance. Email System model number and serial number to Robert.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove from UUMA</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove the mksysb backup files.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove from NIM definitions.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Send ticket to reclaim <abbr title="Domain Name System">DNS</abbr> names, IP addresses, network ports and cables to Network team.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
