
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="configuring_sudo">Configuring sudo</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Discuss and make sure what users ask for is legit.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Backup the master file.<pre class="code">sudo cp -p /prod/images/etc/sudoers /prod/images/etc/old/sudoers.$(date +%m%d%y%H%M)</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Edit the master file on pgnmsv01<pre class="code">sudo vi /prod/images/etc/sudoers</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Make the changes, copy the sudoers to a test system i.e. atlasdr, panmsv02 etc and test if the file is ok. If there is a typo, it will fail on syntax.</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Push the file<pre class="code">sudo scp /prod/images/etc/sudoers panmsv02:/etc/sudoers</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Test it on panmsv02<pre class="code">ssh panmsv02</pre>

<p>
Test it
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo su -</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Once tested, copy the file to all the systems. As root,<pre class="code">for host in $(cat /prod/images/etc/allhosts.tenneco)
do
   echo &quot;Copying to ${host} ..&quot;
   sudo scp -o Batchmode=yes /prod/images/etc/sudoers ${host}:/etc/sudoers
done</pre>

<p>
Ignore the errors unless it is the server you want it to go.
</p>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
As the sudo project did not go initially the way wanted it to go, we had to change the policies a little bit.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> No more itocroot requests, we will not reset itocroot&#039;s password for any one.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The access will be given to an individual hence there is no need to share the password any more.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The access will not be given to extended period of time</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong> Enabling a user for sudo su - access </strong>
</p>

<p>
No more sudo access here unless there is an exception.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Login to pgnmsv01 </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Enable xxx user for yyy host<pre class="code">sudo /prod/images/scripts/manage_sudo enable xxx yyy</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
