
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="upgrading_vios_servers_to_vios_22632">Upgrading VIOS Servers to VIOS 2.2.6.32</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong> Before installing the Service Release 2.2.6.32 </strong>
<strong> Follow the standard AIX preupgrade steps. </strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=chris:backupconfig" class="wikilink1" title="chris:backupconfig">Perform the configuration backup</a></div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
<strong> The update could fail if there is a loaded media repository. </strong>
</p>

<p>
<strong> Checking for a loaded media repository </strong>
</p>

<p>
<strong> To check for a loaded media repository, and then unload it, follow these steps. </strong>
To check for loaded images, run the following command:
</p>
<pre class="code">lsvopt</pre>

<p>
The Media column lists any loaded media. 
To unload media images, run the following commands on all Virtual Target Devices that have loaded images.
</p>
<pre class="code">unloadopt -vtd &lt;file-backed_virtual_optical_device &gt;</pre>

<p>
To verify that all media are unloaded, run the following command again.
</p>
<pre class="code">lsvopt</pre>

<p>
 The command output should show No Media for all VTDs.
</p>

<p>
<strong> UPGRADE PROCESS STARTS HERE </strong>
</p>

<p>
<strong> Follow the standard AIX preupgrade steps. </strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=chris:backupconfig" class="wikilink1" title="chris:backupconfig">Perform the configuration backup</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Log in to the VIOS as the user padmin.  If you use one or more File Backed Optical Media Repositories, you need to unload media images before you apply the Update Release. If you use Shared Storage Pools(<strong>we do not use this</strong>), then Shared Storage Pool Services must be stopped.<pre class="code">clstartstop -stop -n &lt;cluster_name&gt; -m &lt;hostname&gt;</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Execute oem_setup_env to get out of the restriced shell litations <pre class="code"> oem_setup_env </pre>
<pre class="code"> set -o vi </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Chan</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Commit previous updates, by running the updateios command. <pre class="code">updateios -commit </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Verify the updates files that were copied, this step can only be performed if the link to openssl was created.  <pre class="code"> cp /mnt/ck_sum.bff /home/padmin</pre>
<pre class="code"> chmod 755 /home/padmin/ck_sum.bff</pre>
<pre class="code"> ck_sum.bff /mnt </pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
    If there are missing updates or incomplete downloads, an error message is displayed.
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Apply the update by running the updateios command.<pre class="code"> updateios -accept -install -dev /mnt</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Run the following command to set authorization for padmin.&lt;/code&gt;swrole - PAdmin&lt;/code&gt;</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> To load all changes, reboot the VIOS as user padmin .<pre class="code"> shutdown -force -restart</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Verify that the update was successful by checking the results of the updateios command and by running the ioslevel command, which should indicate that the ioslevel is now 2.2.2.3.<pre class="code">ioslevel</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Run the license acept command for all uprdrates &lt;linense -accept&gt;</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Verify that the update was successful by checking the results of the updateios command and by running the ioslevel command, which should indicate that the ioslevel is now 2.2.2.3.<pre class="code">ioslevel</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Commit all the updates <pre class="code">updateios -commit</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
