
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="ftp1tennecocom_user_setup">FTP1.TENNECO.COM User Setup</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="code"> After Entitlement creates the user id on the server thwy will send the UNIX Team a ticket to alow the user id FTP access to the server. 
 Make the following changes to the user id substitute actual user name and uid where applicable 
 
 Check the ticket for a Preferred Password. If one is present set the password to that password. 
 If no prefered password is documented, create a complex password and document it so it can be sent to the user. 
 </pre>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Change the user shell from /usr/bin/ksh to /usr/sbin/sftp-server <pre class="code"> sudo chuser shell=&#039;/usr/sbin/sftp-server&#039; {user login here} </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Change the users home directory from /home/user to /prod/ftp/user <pre class="code"> sudo chuser home=&#039;/prod/ftp/{user login here}&#039; {user login here} </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Change the users rlogin to false <pre class="code">sudo  chuser rlogin=&#039;false&#039; &lt;user login here&gt; </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Set the users password with specified/ requested on one you have generated and documented <pre class="code"> sudo passwd {user login here}</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Set Password to not request change at first login <pre class="code">sudo  pwdadm -c {user login here}</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Set the password to not expire <pre class="code"> sudo chuser maxage=0 {user login here) </pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
   Add a group that is unique to this user.
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Get the users UID from /etc/password <pre class="code"> sudo  grep {user name} /etc/passwd | awk -F: &#039;{print $3}&#039; </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Set so user can only see his own data <pre class="code"> sudo  mkgroup -&#039;A&#039; id=&#039;{UID from step above}&#039; users=&#039;{user login here}&#039; {user login here} </pre>
<pre class="code"> sudo chuser pgrp=&#039;{user login here}&#039; {user login here}</pre>
<pre class="code"> sudo chuser groups=&#039;{user login here}&#039; {user login here} </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Move the users home directory to /prod/ftp <pre class="code"> cd /prod/ftp </pre>
<pre class="code"> sudo mv /home/{user login here} . </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Set the users ownership and group permissions <pre class="code"> sudo chown {user login here}:{user login here} {user login here} </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Set the permissions so others can not see or cd to user <pre class="code">sudo chmod 700 {user login here} </pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
   Edit the /etc/ftpusers file and remove the user from the file. 
</p>
<pre class="code"> sudo vi /etc/ftpusers </pre>

<p>
 Delete the users ID and save the file.
</p>
<pre class="code"> 
 Modify ssh config file to further harden the user id and server Add the user to the appropirate stanza in /etc/ssh/sshd_config 
  - Create a backup copy of sshd_config  where .yn = your initials </pre>
<pre class="code"> cd /etc/ssh </pre>
<pre class="code"> sudo  cp -p  sshd_config sshd_config-$(date +%Y%m%d-%H:%M:%S).yn </pre>
<pre class="code"> sudo vi sshd_config </pre>

<p>
 Add the username to the end of the stanza “Example of overriding settings on a per-user basis”
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Save the file and restart the ssh daemon so the change takes effect <pre class="code"> sudo kill -HUP $(lssrc -a |grep sshd | awk &#039;{print $3}&#039;)</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
<pre class="code"> Now test the user id with FileZilla from your pc to insure that the user can access the server as requested. 
 Attach a screen shot of the access from your pc to the ticket as proof of access to the server. </pre>

</div>
