
<p>
1. Down load the appropriate HMC Software Upgrade network Images from IBM Fix Central <a href="http://www14.software.ibm.com/webapp/set2/sas/f/netinstall/home.html" class="urlextern" title="http://www14.software.ibm.com/webapp/set2/sas/f/netinstall/home.html"  rel="nofollow">http://www14.software.ibm.com/webapp/set2/sas/f/netinstall/home.html</a>
</p>

<p>
Down load them using the BULK <abbr title="File Transfer Protocol">FTP</abbr> method to the /prod/images/HMC-Code directory on pgnmsv01.  This is the repository for the HMC Upgrade / update software.  The Naming convention is straight forward with M0 being the sufix M0 being the initial release. M1 being Service Pack / maintenance level 01  etc.  iFixes are noted and grouped under their associated releases.  Example V7R7.6M0_iFixes. 
</p>

<p>
2) Back up the HMC
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=chris:backuphmc" class="wikilink1" title="chris:backuphmc">Backup HMC</a></div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
3. Save the upgrade data - this is an improtant step . This command puts a copy of the saves data on the USB and he disk as well. teh code&gt; saveupgdata -r diskusb &lt;/code&gt;
</p>

<p>
4) Once the HMC hackup has completed log on to the HMC as hscroot. Clear the old log files by entering the following command 
</p>
<pre class="code"> chhmcfs -o f -d 0 </pre>

<p>
5 Next, run the getupgfiles command to copy the files from the server you downloaded or copied them to over to the bootable disk partition on the HMC. 
getupgfiles -h hostname -u username  -d remote-directory See example below where hostname is pgnmsv01.amer.int.tenneco.com and Directory is prod/images/HMC-Code/V7R7.6.0M0/
</p>
<pre class="code"> 
getupgfiles -h pgnmsv01.amer.int.tenneco.com -u root -d /prod/images/HMC-Code/V7R7.6.0M0/ </pre>

<p>
Enter the password for root on pgnmsv01 when prompted.
The HMC will return  to the command prompt when the file copy has completed.  If the file copy fails STOP DO NOT PROCEED !!! You will need to get a PESH password and clear the files and create additional space for the copy.  
</p>

<p>
6. Save the upgrade data - this is an improtant step . This command puts a copy of the saves data on the USB and he disk as well. teh code&gt; saveupgdata -r diskusb &lt;/code&gt;
</p>

<p>
7. Once the files have been copied Enter the following at the HMC command line 
</p>
<pre class="code"> 
chhmc -c altdiskboot -s enable --mode upgrade </pre>

<p>
8. Finally,reboot the HMC and start the upgrade.
</p>
<pre class="code">  hmcshutdown -r -t now </pre>

<p>
9. The process will take about 45 minutes to complete. 
</p>

<p>
10. Once thje HMC has rebooted, log in to the HMC and apply any and al requored patches for the release.
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=unix:install-hmc-patchesppatch_hmc" class="wikilink2" title="unix:install-hmc-patchesppatch_hmc" rel="nofollow">install-hmc-patchesPpatch  HMC</a></div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
A
</p>
