
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="applying_vios_22510_updates_from_a_remotely_mounted_file_system_power8">Applying VIOS 2.2.5.10 updates from a remotely mounted file system (Power8)</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Applying VIOS 2.2.5.10 updates from a remotely mounted file system (Power8)" [1-91] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="these_vios_levels_may_be_upgrade_to_22510">These VIOS levels may be upgrade to &#039;&#039;2.2.5.10&#039;&#039;</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">VIOS 2.1.0.0 VIOS 2.1.0.1 VIOS 2.1.1.0 VIOS 2.1.1.10 VIOS 2.1.2.0 VIOS 2.1.2.10
VIOS 2.1.2.11 VIOS 2.1.2.12 VIOS 2.1.2.13 VIOS 2.1.3.0 VIOS 2.1.3.10 VIOS 2.2.0.0
VIOS 2.2.0.10 VIOS 2.2.0.11 VIOS 2.2.0.12 VIOS 2.2.0.13 VIOS 2.2.1.0 VIOS 2.2.1.1
VIOS 2.2.1.3 VIOS 2.2.1.4 VIOS 2.2.1.5 VIOS 2.2.1.6 VIOS 2.2.1.7 VIOS 2.2.1.8 VIOS 2.2.1.9
VIOS 2.2.2.0 VIOS 2.2.2.1 VIOS 2.2.2.2 VIOS 2.2.2.3 VIOS 2.2.2.4 VIOS 2.2.2.5 VIOS 2.2.2.6
VIOS 2.2.2.70 VIOS 2.2.3.0 VIOS 2.2.3.1 VIOS 2.2.3.2 VIOS 2.2.3.3 VIOS 2.2.3.4 VIOS 2.2.3.50
VIOS 2.2.3.51 VIOS 2.2.3.52 VIOS 2.2.3.60 VIOS 2.2.3.70 VIOS 2.2.4.0 VIOS 2.2.4.10 VIOS 2.2.4.20 
VIOS 2.2.4.21 VIOS 2.2.4.22 VIOS 2.2.4.23 VIOS 2.2.5.0</pre>

<p>
<strong>Make sure you have upgraded the firmware of the LPAR before upgrading the VIOS level</strong>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "These VIOS levels may be upgrade to ''2.2.5.10''" [92-927] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="work_to_be_done_prior_to_the_vios_upgrade">Work to be done prior to the VIOS upgrade</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Please ensure that your rootvg contains at least 30GB free space<pre class="code">lsvg rootvg</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Login to the host and preserve a copy of rootvg</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=unix:upgrade-to-vios-2.2.5.10internaldisks" class="wikilink1" title="unix:upgrade-to-vios-2.2.5.10internaldisks">Power8 Servers are booting from Internal Disks (Mirrored Disks)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Disable the alt_disk_copy script<pre class="code">sudo touch /var/adm/do_not_run_alt_disk_until_removed_tenneco</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Make sure that NIM server has a latest copy of mksysb</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> On the server to be patched, find out the NIM server<pre class="code">grep mksysb /var/adm/.information
mksysbhost:pgnmsv01</pre>

<p>
In this case, it is pgnmsv01
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Login to the NIM server we figured out above, make sure a latest copy of mksysb image backup exists<pre class="code">sudo ls -l /mksysb-images/bos.obj.&lt;hostname&gt;.gz</pre>

<p>
<strong>Check the timestamp on the file, it has to be less than 3 days old.</strong>  If the mksysb is 3 days old or less Proceed to Step 4
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> On the server to be upgraded create a new mksysb image. When the command has completed proceed to next step<pre class="code">sudo /usr/local/scripts/mksysb.sh adhoc</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On NIM server copy the mksysb image to the repository.<pre class="code">sudo cp -p /mksysb-images/bos.obj.&lt;hostname&gt;.gz /preupgrade/mksysb/</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Work to be done prior to the VIOS upgrade" [928-2167] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="work_to_be_done_during_the_vios_upgrade">Work to be done during the VIOS upgrade</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create necessary paperwork, secure outages if necessary</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Ensure necessary blackouts are in place.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> As Power8 VIOS cluster has LPM capability. We will evacuate the frame, by migrating the LPAR one by one. (Please validate first before migrating any LPAR to another Frame)</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check that your alt_disk_copy is bootable  Note this is extremely important - do not skip this step this is your backout !!!</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Find the altinst_rootvg disk <pre class="code"> lspv | grep altinst_rootvg </pre>

<p>
 and set the boot list so the server boots from it
</p>
<pre class="code"> bootlist -m normal -o {hdisk from previous command}</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Perform a reboot at this time<pre class="code">sudo shutdown -Fr</pre>

<p>
Verify that the server has booted correctly to the alternate disk. 
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Reset the bootlist or boot back to the original disk and reboot.<pre class="code">lspv | grep old_rootvg </pre>

<p>
 and set the boot list so the server boots from it
</p>
<pre class="code"> bootlist -m normal -o {hdisk from previous command}</pre>

<p>
 and boot back to it 
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo shutdown -Fr</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Installing the Update Release</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> There is now a method to verify the VIOS update files before installation. This process requires access to openssl by the &#039;padmin&#039; User, which can be accomplished by creating a link. To verify the VIOS update files, follow these steps:</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Login to the respective VIO server and execute this command.<pre class="code">oem_setup_env</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Create a link to openssl<pre class="code">ln -s /usr/bin/openssl /usr/ios/utils/openssl</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Verify the link to openssl was created<pre class="code">ls -alL /usr/bin/openssl /usr/ios/utils/openssl</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Both files should display similar owner and size and then exit<pre class="code">exit</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create a directory and Mount the remote directory onto the Virtual I/O Server<pre class="code">sudo mkdir -p /mnt/viosupdates</pre>

<p>
Then
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo mount 10.0.48.12:/prod/images/vio/vios2/fixpacks /mnt/viosupdates</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Login as padmin user and commit previous updates by running the updateios command<pre class="code">sudo su - padmin</pre>
<pre class="code">updateios -commit</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install the updates by running the updateios command.<pre class="code">updateios -accept -install -dev /mnt/viosupdates/VIOS_FP_2.2.5.10</pre>

<p>
<strong>NOTE: Depending on the VIOs level, one or more of the LPPs below may be reported as “Missing Requisites”, and they may be ignored.</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code"> MISSING REQUISITES:
      
X11.loc.fr_FR.base.lib 4.3.0.0        # Base Level Fileset
bos.INed 6.1.6.0                      # Base Level Fileset
bos.loc.pc.Ja_JP 6.1.0.0              # Base Level Fileset
bos.loc.utf.EN_US 6.1.0.0             # Base Level Fileset
bos.mls.rte 6.1.x.x                   # Base Level Fileset
bos.mls.rte 6.1.9.200                 # Base Level Fileset or #Fileset Update
bos.svprint.rte 6.1.9.200             # Fileset Update</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> To activate the changes, reboot the VIOS server as user padmin .<pre class="code">shutdown -force -restart</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Verify that the update was successful by checking the results of the updateios command and by running the ioslevel command, which should indicate that the ioslevel is now 2.2.5.10.<pre class="code">ioslevel</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Accept the license command for all upgrades<pre class="code">license -accept</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Commit all the updates <pre class="code">updateios -commit</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Work to be done during the VIOS upgrade" [2168-5419] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="work_to_be_done_after_the_vios_upgrade">Work to be done after the VIOS upgrade</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Migrate one non production system back and run it for few hours before we migrate all workloads.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Validate the paths are online for all the guests running on that frame<pre class="code">for host in host1 host2 host3
do
   ssh ${host} /usr/local/scripts/chkdsk
done</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Capture a snap of the upgraded VIOS system, and send it to IBM to generate iFixes<pre class="code">sudo su - padmin</pre>
<pre class="code">snap -r</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The snap will be stored under /tmp/ibmsupt/snap.pax.Z</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove blackouts</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Work to be done after the VIOS upgrade" [5420-] -->