
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="de-brief_notes_--_improvements">2015 - De-brief notes -- Improvements</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Document steps for recovery of TA2 and PTA database disks between backup servers and DB servers.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Step number 16 mkvg command needs more descriptive or improve the script that creates file_systems.txt and update DR documentation. «== Done command added</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> filesystems.txt needs mkdir -p , modify dr.sh and push to all servers. «==DONE</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Improve TZ variable insertion into /etc/profile. Add this into Post install script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Add a command to check boot list has been set properly</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> lsvpcfg.sh does not work on XIV , so modify the steps to lsdev -Ccdisk …..</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Improve PS1 variable , include it in the Postinstall script</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Include the step to configure en1(bck) network to the Post install script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> See if you can automate /etc/hosts into the Post install script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Include NTP configuration to Postinstall script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Change the root password &amp; itocroot password, implement it in the Post install script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement ssh passwordless login from nim to all servers, Implement in Post Install script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement /etc/exports within the post install script.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Automate removal of netbackup software – PostInstall script.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
