
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="aix_7100-04-01_technology_level_upgrade">AIX 7100-04-01 Technology Level Upgrade</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create proper change controls and paper work, get approvals from business, get apps contacts to manage applications etc. As Chris say, <strong>the whole nine yards</strong></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://itchome/cgi-bin/active_bo.cgi" class="urlextern" title="http://itchome/cgi-bin/active_bo.cgi"  rel="nofollow">Verify blackouts are in place for all the servers we plan to work on</a> </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=unix:backupconfig" class="wikilink1" title="unix:backupconfig">Perform the configuration backup</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=changeeventplans:cleanupusrsap" class="wikilink1" title="changeeventplans:cleanupusrsap">Cleanup /usr/sap/ filesytem</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check for and commit any uncommitted LPP&#039;s left from past upgrades. </div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> List any uncommited LPPS <pre class="code">sudo installp -s</pre>

<p>
 If there are no uncommitted LPP&#039;s the outpt should be 
</p>
<pre class="code">     0503-459 installp:  No filesets were found in the Software
        Vital Product Database in the APPLIED state.</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Commit all LPP&#039;s (if any) listed in output from installp -s commnd <pre class="code"> installp -c all</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check and remove e-Fixes if any on system Below is an example Efixes may vary by release and server depending upon requirements</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> List e-Fixes if any<pre class="code">sudo /usr/sbin/emgr -P</pre>

<p>
You should see something similar if the system has e-Fixes
</p>
<pre class="code">xeerap01:/root&gt; /usr/sbin/emgr -P

PACKAGE                                                  INSTALLER   LABEL
======================================================== =========== ==========
bos.net.nfs.client                                       installp    IV41838s2a
bos.mp64                                                 installp    IV41462s2a</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Remove them<pre class="code">sudo /usr/sbin/emgr -r -L e-Fix Label</pre>

<p>
Something like
</p>
<pre class="code">xeerap01:/root&gt; /usr/sbin/emgr -r -L IV41838s2a
xeerap01:/root&gt; /usr/sbin/emgr -r -L IV41462s2a</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Make sure /var/log/aso exists</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Check if bos.aso is installed<pre class="code">lslpp -l bos.aso</pre>

<p>
If it exists, you should see something similar
</p>
<pre class="code">lslpp -l bos.aso
  Fileset                      Level  State      Description
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Path: /usr/lib/objrepos
  bos.aso                   7.1.2.15  COMMITTED  Active System Optimizer

Path: /etc/objrepos
  bos.aso                   7.1.2.15  COMMITTED  Active System Optimizer</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> If it does, then make sure there is a log directory for it.<pre class="code">ls -ld /var/log/aso</pre>

<p>
If the directory does not exist, create it
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo mkdir -p /var/log/aso
sudo chown root:system /var/log/aso</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> At this point open a console window to the server being upgraded.  These reboots to / from the alt disk should be done from tthe console.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check that your alt_disk_copy is bootable  Note this is extremely important - do not skip this step this is your backout !!!</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Find the altinst_rootvg disk <pre class="code"> lspv | grep altinst_rootvg </pre>

<p>
 and set the boot list so the server boots from it
</p>
<pre class="code"> bootlist -m normal -o {hdisk from previous command{</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Perform a reboot at this time<pre class="code">sudo shutdown -Fr</pre>

<p>
 Verify that the server has boted correcly to the alternate disk. 
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rest the bootlist or boot back to the original disk and reboot.  <pre class="code"> lspv | grep old_rootvg </pre>

<p>
 and set the boot list so the server boots from it
</p>
<pre class="code"> bootlist -m normal -o {hdisk from previous command}</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On the NIM server find the correct lppsrc and export the directory to the target server.</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> To export AIX 7.1 TL 04 SP01<pre class="code">sudo exportfs -i /prod/images/lppsrc/710TL04-01</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On the Server to be patched, NFS mount the lppsrc location<pre class="code">sudo mkdir -p /mnt/aixupdates
sudo mount pgnmsv01:/prod/images/lppsrc/710TL04-01 /mnt/aixupdates</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> For the smitty lovers,</div>
<ol>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Change to the mount point<pre class="code">cd /mnt/aixupdates</pre>

<p>
Invoke smitty
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo smitty update_all</pre>

<p>
Then select ”.”
</p>
</div>
<ul>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> PREVIEW only - should be set to no</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> COMMIT software updates must be set to yes</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> ACCEPT new license agreements? must be set to yes</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Then hit enter :)</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> For the CLI lovers</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Perform a preview upgrade<pre class="code">cd /mnt/aixupdates
sudo install_all_updates -d . -c -p -r -V -Y</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> If no errors found, perform the upgrade<pre class="code">cd /mnt/aixupdates
sudo install_all_updates -d . -c -r -V -Y</pre>

<p>
More details on the arguments
</p>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> d  —&gt; Location</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> c  —&gt; Commit the updates</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> p  —&gt; Preview</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> r  —&gt; Update rpms as well</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> V  —&gt; Verbose output</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Y  —&gt; Accept license agreements</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> NOTE #&lt;&gt;# Before Rebooting the server execute the following command to remove the xmdaily entry from /etc/inittab. This will prevent it from starting after reboot of the server <pre class="code"> rmitab &quot;xmdaily&quot;</pre>
</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Run the following command to remove IBM Electrornic Service Agent Annoying Constant Reminder that fills root mail <pre class="code">/usr/esa/sbin/rmESAReminder</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check for and commit any uncommitted LPP&#039;s left from upgrade. </div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> List any uncommited LPPS <pre class="code">sudo installp -s</pre>

<p>
 If there are no uncommitted LPP&#039;s the outpt should be 
</p>
<pre class="code">     0503-459 installp:  No filesets were found in the Software
        Vital Product Database in the APPLIED state.</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Commit all LPP&#039;s (if any) listed in output from installp -s commnd <pre class="code"> installp -c all</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> After the upgrade has successfully completed, reboot the server to complete the upgrade<pre class="code">sudo shutdown -Fr</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Once the server has successfully rebooted login and check to see that the upgrade completed successfully</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Check oslevel<pre class="code">oslevel -s </pre>

<p>
 Verify against the expected results. 
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Check lppchk<pre class="code">sudo lppchk -vm3</pre>

<p>
No output is good.
</p>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check the /etc/sendmail/mail/sedndmsil.cf configuration file for to see if the Smart mailer Relay “DS” has changed.<pre class="code">sudo grep DS /etc/mail/sendmail.cf</pre>

<p>
If the DS entry is blank then check the copy created when you performed the Configuration Backup in Step 2 above. Update the DS entry in the current /etc/sendmail/mail/sendmail.cf file. Do NOT Overlay the current sendmail.cf file as it is compiled for the new version of sendmail.
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Confirm that the <abbr title="Secure Shell">SSH</abbr> host keys are not overwritten. Login to pgnmsv01, ssh to the server you just upgraded.<pre class="code"> sudo ssh SERVERNAME ls -ld /tmp/</pre>

<p>
If successful, <abbr title="Secure Shell">SSH</abbr> keys were not over written, we are good. In case of failure due to <abbr title="Secure Shell">SSH</abbr> keys, Restore the <abbr title="Secure Shell">SSH</abbr> keys
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo cp -p BACKUPDIR/etc/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key /etc/ssh/
sudo cp -p BACKUPDIR/etc/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key.pub /etc/ssh/
sudo cp -p BACKUPDIR/etc/ssh/ssh_host_key /etc/ssh/
sudo cp -p BACKUPDIR/etc/ssh/ssh_host_key.pub /etc/ssh/
sudo cp -p BACKUPDIR/etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key /etc/ssh/
sudo cp -p BACKUPDIR/etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key.pub /etc/ssh/</pre>

<p>
BACKUPDIR is the directory you created by running the save_env.sh – probably still in your home directory
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On the NIM Server, remove the exported lppsource file system from the exports list  example /usr/sbin/rmnfsexp -d &#039;/prod/images/lppsrc/710TL04-01&#039; &#039;-B&#039; <pre class="code"> sudo /usr/sbin/rmnfsexp -d &#039;/prod/images/lppsrc/{loosource that was exported for upgrade}&#039; &#039;-B&#039; </pre>

<p>
  example /usr/sbin/rmnfsexp -d &#039;/prod/images/lppsrc/710TL04-01&#039; &#039;-B&#039;
</p>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
- <a href="/doku.php?id=unix:fix-failed-aso" class="wikilink1" title="unix:fix-failed-aso">FIX bos.aso issues - lppchk -vm3</a>
</p>

</div>
