
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="backup_and_save_the_vios_configuration">Backup and Save the VIOS Configuration</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Backup and Save the VIOS Configuration" [1-55] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="work_to_be_done_prior_to_the_vios_upgrade">Work to be done prior to the VIOS upgrade</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Login to the host and preserve a copy of rootvg</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> if upgrading Firmware on the server (POWER 8) make sure the Server is evacuated. All clients have eenmoved toother servers if possible</div>
<ol>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> make sure there are no NPIV maps in place.<pre class="code">lsmap -all -npiv</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Capture the Shared Ethernet Adapter (SEA) informaion and recored it<pre class="code">export HOSTNAME={name of server}</pre>
<pre class="code">ifconfig -s &gt; $HOSTNAME-preupgrade</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Run checkit script to caprure any configuration variable issues <pre class="code">echo &quot;&quot; &gt;&gt; $HOSTNAME-preupgrade</pre>
<pre class="code"> /usr/local/sbin/checkit &gt;&gt;$HOSTNAME-preupgrade</pre>
</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Run snapit to collect current system information. Output is in /usr/sbin/logs/{hostname-snapit-timestamp, <pre class="code">/usr/local/sbin/snapi</pre>

<p>
 Copy it to the NM server fro safe keeping
</p>
<pre class="code">scp /usr/sbin/logs/{hostname-snapit-timestamp pgnmsv01:/preupgrade/reports</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Login to the NIM server we figured out above, make sure a latest copy of mksysb image backup exists<pre class="code">sudo ls -l /mksysb-images/bos.obj.&lt;hostname&gt;.gz</pre>

<p>
<strong>Check the timestamp on the file, it has to be less than 3 days old.</strong>  If the mksysb is 3 days old or less Proceed to Step 4
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> On the server to be upgraded create a new mksysb image. When the command has completed proceed to next step<pre class="code">sudo /usr/local/scripts/mksysb.sh adhoc</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> On NIM server copy the mksysb image to the repository.<pre class="code">sudo cp -p /mksysb-images/bos.obj.&lt;hostname&gt;.gz /preupgrade/mksysb/</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Work to be done prior to the VIOS upgrade" [56-1599] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="work_to_be_done_during_the_vios_upgrade">Work to be done during the VIOS upgrade</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create necessary paperwork, secure outages if necessary</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Ensure necessary blackouts are in place.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> As Power8 VIOS cluster has LPM capability. We will evacuate the frame, by migrating the LPAR one by one. (Please validate first before migrating any LPAR to another Frame)</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check that your alt_disk_copy is bootable  Note this is extremely important - do not skip this step this is your backout !!!</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Find the altinst_rootvg disk <pre class="code"> lspv | grep altinst_rootvg </pre>

<p>
 and set the boot list so the server boots from it
</p>
<pre class="code"> bootlist -m normal -o {hdisk from previous command}</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Perform a reboot at this time<pre class="code">sudo shutdown -Fr</pre>

<p>
Verify that the server has booted correctly to the alternate disk. 
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Reset the bootlist or boot back to the original disk and reboot.<pre class="code">lspv | grep old_rootvg </pre>

<p>
 and set the boot list so the server boots from it
</p>
<pre class="code"> bootlist -m normal -o {hdisk from previous command}</pre>

<p>
 and boot back to it 
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo shutdown -Fr</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Installing the Update Release</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> There is now a method to verify the VIOS update files before installation. This process requires access to openssl by the &#039;padmin&#039; User, which can be accomplished by creating a link. To verify the VIOS update files, follow these steps:</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Login to the respective VIO server and execute this command.<pre class="code">oem_setup_env</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Create a link to openssl<pre class="code">ln -s /usr/bin/openssl /usr/ios/utils/openssl</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Verify the link to openssl was created<pre class="code">ls -alL /usr/bin/openssl /usr/ios/utils/openssl</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Both files should display similar owner and size and then exit<pre class="code">exit</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create a directory and Mount the remote directory onto the Virtual I/O Server<pre class="code">sudo mkdir -p /mnt/viosupdates</pre>

<p>
Then
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo mount 10.0.48.12:/prod/images/vio/vios2/fixpacks /mnt/viosupdates</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Login as padmin user and commit previous updates by running the updateios command<pre class="code">sudo su - padmin</pre>
<pre class="code">updateios -commit</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install the updates by running the updateios command.<pre class="code">updateios -accept -install -dev /mnt/viosupdates/VIOS_FP_2.2.5.10</pre>

<p>
<strong>NOTE: Depending on the VIOs level, one or more of the LPPs below may be reported as “Missing Requisites”, and they may be ignored.</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code"> MISSING REQUISITES:
      
X11.loc.fr_FR.base.lib 4.3.0.0        # Base Level Fileset
bos.INed 6.1.6.0                      # Base Level Fileset
bos.loc.pc.Ja_JP 6.1.0.0              # Base Level Fileset
bos.loc.utf.EN_US 6.1.0.0             # Base Level Fileset
bos.mls.rte 6.1.x.x                   # Base Level Fileset
bos.mls.rte 6.1.9.200                 # Base Level Fileset or #Fileset Update
bos.svprint.rte 6.1.9.200             # Fileset Update</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> To activate the changes, reboot the VIOS server as user padmin .<pre class="code">shutdown -force -restart</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Verify that the update was successful by checking the results of the updateios command and by running the ioslevel command, which should indicate that the ioslevel is now 2.2.5.10.<pre class="code">ioslevel</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Accept the license command for all upgrades<pre class="code">license -accept</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Commit all the updates <pre class="code">updateios -commit</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Work to be done during the VIOS upgrade" [1600-4851] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="work_to_be_done_after_the_vios_upgrade">Work to be done after the VIOS upgrade</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Migrate one non production system back and run it for few hours before we migrate all workloads.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Validate the paths are online for all the guests running on that frame<pre class="code">for host in host1 host2 host3
do
   ssh ${host} /usr/local/scripts/chkdsk
done</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Capture a snap of the upgraded VIOS system, and send it to IBM to generate iFixes<pre class="code">sudo su - padmin</pre>
<pre class="code">snap -r</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The snap will be stored under /tmp/ibmsupt/snap.pax.Z</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove blackouts</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Work to be done after the VIOS upgrade" [4852-] -->