
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="correct_bosaso_lppchk_-vm3_issue">Correct bos.aso lppchk -vm3 issue</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong><em class="u">## Prerequisites….</em></strong> The upgrade has sucessfully completed <br/>

<strong><em class="u">## Prerequisites….</em></strong> Make sure that you have successfully rebootesd the server and that the oslevel -s command shows 7100-03-04-1441<br/>

<strong><em class="u">## Prerequisites….</em></strong> All other steps for the upgrade must be completed and tested, ssh keys copied. etc….<br/>

<strong><em class="u">## Prerequisites…,</em></strong> The obly issue should be that the lpshc -vm3 shows e problem  with bos.aso <br/>

</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On the server that you just upgraded, mount the lppsource that was used for the upgrade from pgnmsv01 and change direct to it. <pre class="code"> mount pgnmsv01:/prod/images/lppsr/710TL03-04 /mnt </pre>
<pre class="code">cd /mnt</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> from the command line<pre class="code"> smitty </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Select “Install and Update from ALL Available Software”</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> enter ”.” for current directory, remember yo did cd to this directory earlier.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> press F4 and  do a search for  bos.aso from the drop down list. select <pre class="code"> bos.aso                                                            ALL
+ 7.1.3.30  Active System Optimizer                                  
@ 7.1.3.15  Active System Optimizer                                  </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> select 7.1.3.30  Active System Optimizer and press enter</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On the menu change the following options. <pre class="code">AUTOMATICALLY install requisite software?           no</pre>
<pre class="code">OVERWRITE same or newer versions?                   yes</pre>
<pre class="code">ACCEPT new license agreements?                      yes </pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Press enter to continue, This will overwrite the existing version with the base code.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Once this has completed. retrun to the Inatall and Update Sofware Menu and selsct <pre class="code">  Update Installed Software to Latest Level (Update All)</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> again enter ”.” at the pronpet and press enter</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> change the following options <pre class="code"> ACCEPT new license agreements?                      yes </pre>

<p>
 and press enter to continue.  This will apply the update to the bos.aso
</p>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
