
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="aix_-_create_a_new_filesystem">AIX - Create a new filesystem</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "AIX - Create a new filesystem" [1-45] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="standards">Standards (?)</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
As you might see, there are multiple standards here for creating filesystems. ( read, standards are not enforced all the time / standards are compromized when SAN cloning like things are performed)
</p>

<p>
If you are the lucky one who got the chance to create a filesystem from scratch, like a new project requesting an oracle database, here are some pointers.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Try to keep smaller databases in one volume group. Bigger databases may have a different VG for binaries, redos, archives and data files.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Try to name the logical volumes with a prefix of the application name for e.g. <strong>tsbilv001</strong> for the first logical volume of TSBI database. This helps when SAN clonings are performed or the database is moved to a different host. If you use the default <strong>fslv</strong> name, you may not be able to import the VG successfully on another host. Another acceptable standard is to name is according to the mountpoint e.g. <strong>/oracle/TSBI/data1</strong> filesystem may be created on a logical volume <strong>oraTSBIdata1</strong>. I removed some characters to limit the length of the lvname.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Try to name the VG unique in the environment e.g. <strong>tsbidatavg01</strong>, <strong>tsbisoftvg01</strong>, <strong>tsbiredovg01</strong> etc.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Standards (?)" [46-1243] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="create_database_filesystem_s">Create database filesystem(s)</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This document was written as I created filesystems for TSBI database for a GIS upgrade project.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Create database filesystem(s)" [1244-1383] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="create_a_volume_group">Create a volume group</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
As TGIS is going to be a small test database, I decided to keep everything in one single VG. The VG name will be <strong>tsbivg01</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create tsbivg01<pre class="code">sudo mkvg -B -s 512 -y tsbivg01 hdisk26 hdisk27 hdisk28 hdisk29 hdisk30</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Create a volume group" [1384-1648] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="create_logical_volumes_and_filesystems">Create logical volumes and filesystems</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The storage request looked like this<pre class="code">/oracle/TSBI           10g
/oracle/TSBI/data1     50g
...lines removed...
/oracle/TSBI/112_64    10g</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Prepare commands to create logicalvolumes<pre class="code">cat /var/tmp/tsbiinfo | sed -e &quot;s;/oracle;ora;g&quot; -e &quot;s;/;;g&quot; \
|sed &quot;s;g$;;g&quot; |  awk &#039;{print $1,$2*1024/512}&#039; | awk &#039;{print &quot;mklv -tjfs2 -y &quot;$1,&quot;tsbivg01&quot;,$NF}&#039; &gt; /var/tmp/cr_lv_cmds</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check the script<pre class="code">mklv -tjfs2 -y oraTSBI tsbivg01 80
...lines removed...
mklv -tjfs2 -y oraTSBIarchive tsbivg01 80
mklv -tjfs2 -y oraTSBI112_64 tsbivg01 80</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create the logical volumes<pre class="code">sudo ksh -x /var/tmp/cr_lv_cmds
+ mklv -tjfs2 -y oraTSBI tsbivg01 80
oraTSBI
...lines removed...
+ mklv -tjfs2 -y oraTSBI112_64 tsbivg01 80
oraTSBI112_64</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Increase the Maximum allocation for LV where seems needed<pre class="code">for lv in lv1 lv2 .......
do
   sudo chlv -x 10240 ${lv}
done</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create filesystems<pre class="code">cat /var/tmp/tsbiinfo | awk &#039;{print $1}&#039; &gt; /var/tmp/fsnames
cat /var/tmp/cr_lv_cmds | awk &#039;{print $4}&#039; &gt; /var/tmp/lvnames</pre>

<p>
Get the commands
</p>
<pre class="code">paste /var/tmp/lvnames /var/tmp/fsnames \
| awk &#039;{print &quot;crfs -vjfs2 -d &quot;$1,&quot;-A yes -t no -m &quot;$NF}&#039; &gt; /var/tmp/cr_fs.tsbi</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create filesystems<pre class="code">root on taitc102:/root&gt;sudo ksh -x /var/tmp/cr_fs.tsbi
+ crfs -vjfs2 -d oraTSBI -A yes -t no -m /oracle/TSBI
File system created successfully.
10485236 kilobytes total disk space.
New File System size is 20971520
...lines removed...
+ crfs -vjfs2 -d oraTSBI112_64 -A yes -t no -m /oracle/TSBI/112_64
File system created successfully.
10485236 kilobytes total disk space.
New File System size is 20971520</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Mount the filesystems<pre class="code">for fs in $(lsvgfs tsbivg01 | sort )
do
  sudo mkdir $fs
  sudo chmod 111 $fs
  sudo mount $fs
done</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Set permissions for filesystems<pre class="code">for fs in $(lsvgfs tsbivg01 | sort )
do
  sudo chown oratsbi:dba ${fs}
  sudo chmod 755 ${fs}
done</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Send an email to the <abbr title="Database Administrator">DBA</abbr> team and let them decide when to turn on the “cio” mount option.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Create logical volumes and filesystems" [1649-] -->