
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="display_renew_the_power8_hardware_entitlement_-_update_access_keyss">Display / Renew the POWER8 Hardware Entitlement - Update Access Keyss</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> To list the Hardware Entitlement - Update Access Key Expiation date <pre class="code"> sudo lscfg -vpl sysplanar0 | grep &quot; Microcode Entitlement Date&quot; </pre>


</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
output will be in th form of 
</p>
<pre class="code">  Microcode Entitlement Date..20170328 </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Display / Renew the POWER8 Hardware Entitlement - Update Access Keyss" [1-328] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="renewing_update_access_keys">Renewing Update Access Keys</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
If a POWER8 server.s hardware entitlement had been extended beyond the initial warranty period through an IBM Hardware Service contract, the server is eligible to receive a new update access key with a lifespan of 180 days that can continue to be updated through the end of the service contract. To renew the update access key, go to the My Entitled Hardware website.
</p>

<p>
After logging into this site, click on .My entitled hardware. in the left-hand column. You will be presented with an option to .View, Download and Request update access keys.. Select this option and you.ll be prompted to enter the 4-digit server type (e.g. 9119 for E870/E880 servers) and its full, 7-digit serial number. Click the add button. If you.ve provided a valid server type/serial combination, the update access key expiration date for this server will be displayed. For newer servers, this should correspond with the end of the warranty period. If you select the checkbox next to the server, you can then choose one of the following displayed options:
</p>
<pre class="code">  Delete - Removes this server from your working set of servers for this session
  View Keys - Shows the license key information for this server
  Download - Downloads and opens an update access key file with an ASCI file browser
  Send - Sends the update access key to your email address
  Request New Standard Key - Requests a new key when your current key is nearing its expiration date</pre>

<p>
When the Request New Standard Key option is selected, the system will check to see if there.s been a status change in hardware entitlement, such as a hardware maintenance contract renewal. If there has been a change and no update access key has been created based on this change, a new key will be generated. When you receive a new update access key, you can use the HMC&#039;s .Enter CoD Code. panel to add it to the server. A new access update key won.t be created if there hasn.t been a change in the ending date for hardware entitlement.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Renewing Update Access Keys" [329-2339] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="more_information_is_available_from_the_following_web_site">More Information is available from the following Web Site</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><a href="http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=isg3T1020902" class="urlextern" title="http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=isg3T1020902"  rel="nofollow">http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=isg3T1020902</a></div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "More Information is available from the following Web Site" [2340-] -->