
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="renewing_sas_software_sas_setinit_renewal_instructions_server_taestr006">Renewing SAS Software / SAS SETINIT Renewal Instructions (server = taestr006)</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
** Contact Guido  /DE/TA.EU and schedule the installation.  Be sure to work with Guido while doing this.  Also make sure you can use Netmeeting or Genesys to share screen so Guido can check work as it progresses if required.  Below are instructions as sent from Guido concerning the Renewal of the SAS License on taestr006
</p>
<pre class="code"> UNIX Software Renewal Instructions</pre>

<p>
The SAS System is licensed on a periodic basis.  You will receive new license information whenever you renew your existing SAS System license or add additional products to your license.  The license information you receive is in the form of the SAS Installation Data file (SID file), which includes your SETINIT.  You must apply your SID file to the SAS System before your licensed software will run.
</p>

<p>
 - SID File
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> At the time of your SAS software order, your designated SAS Installation Representative is sent an e-mail containing your SID file as a text file attachment.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Guido will email you the new license as an attachment. Save the attachment to a local file on your PC</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Use FileZilla to transfer file from local pc to pggpdb01. Transfer to your  directory .  !!! NOTE MAKE SURE TRANSFER TYPE IS SET TO <abbr title="American Standard Code for Information Interchange">ASCII</abbr> !!!!  This removes all special characters ^M from file</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Renewing Your Installed SAS Software
If you just want to renew your license and apply your new SID file to your existing SAS installation, follow the steps below:
</p>
<pre class="code"> 1. Run SAS Setup from !SASROOT/sassetup.  Make sure you have the appropriate privilege to update files in SASROOT.  (= /sas/prod/sw/SASHome/SASFoundation/9.4/sassetup)
 2. Select Run Setup Utilities from the SAS Setup Primary Menu.
 3. Select Renew SAS Software.
 4. Choose the appropriate source of your SID file when prompted.  If you choose the Internet, supply your SAS Installation Key and Order Number.  If you choose the file option, enter the path of the saved e-mail attachment.
 5. Your SID file is applied immediately.  SAS Setup will report if the task was completed successfully or not.  If errors occur, a message is displayed indicating the log files you should check.  </pre>

<p>
If the SAS Installation Data applies successfully, you can enter Q to quit SAS Setup and run the SAS System normally.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Renewing SAS Software / SAS SETINIT Renewal Instructions (server = taestr006)" [2-] -->