
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="start_stop_uuma_application">Start / Stop UUMA Application</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Logon to pcdcunxlxap03 as root</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Start UUMA<pre class="code">cd /opt/tomcat7/bin
./deployuuma</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>
<pre class="code">If it gets a connection error, SEVERE: Could not contact localhost:8005. Tomcat may not be running.
Dec 22, 2014 3:15:37 PM org.apache.catalina.startup.Catalina stopServer
SEVERE: Catalina.stop:
java.net.ConnectException: Connection refused
at java.net.PlainSocketImpl.socketConnect(Native Method) IGNORE IT</pre>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check UUMA website, login and see if it works fine. <a href="http://pcdcunxlxap03.driv.com:8080/uuma/faces/Page1.jsp" class="urlextern" title="http://pcdcunxlxap03.driv.com:8080/uuma/faces/Page1.jsp"  rel="nofollow">http://pcdcunxlxap03.driv.com:8080/uuma/faces/Page1.jsp</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Start background processes<pre class="code">sudo su - oracle
cd /home/oracle/uuma
./start_uumad.sh</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Start / Stop UUMA Application" [1-677] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="check_if_uuma_password_change_is_working">Check if UUMA Password Change is Working</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Log on to the Oracle database 
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo su - oracle</pre>
<pre class="code">cd /home/oracle/uuma</pre>
<pre class="code">sqlplus UUADMN/uuma@UUMA</pre>
<pre class="code">select count(*) from cmd_pwd_reset;</pre>

<p>
The output will look similar to the following
</p>
<pre class="code">  COUNT(*)
----------
        35

SQL&gt;</pre>

<p>
execute the select command 
</p>
<pre class="code">select count(*) from cmd_pwd_reset;</pre>

<p>
 multiple times. You should see the count go down.
To exit the Oracle <abbr title="Structured Query Language">SQL</abbr> type 
</p>
<pre class="code">quit;</pre>

<p>
 at the sql command line. 
If the count decreases then there is not issue and you are done.
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Additional comnds to check user adds, mods, deletes etc. <pre class="code">select count(*) from cmd_add_grp;</pre>
<pre class="code">select count(*) from cmd_add_user_2_grp;</pre>
<pre class="code">select count(*) from cmd_pwd_reset;</pre>
<pre class="code">select count(*) from cmd_user_del;</pre>
<pre class="code">select count(*) from cmd_user_mod;</pre>
<pre class="code">select count(*) from cmd_user_add;</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
If the count does not decrease you need to do the following.
list all UUMA processes running
</p>
<pre class="code"> ps -aef | grep uuma</pre>

<p>
Once you have the list from above.  Terminate all the UUMA processes
</p>
<pre class="code"> kill -9 {PID from list above}</pre>

<p>
 for all processes. 
Check to make sure that all UUMA processes have been terminated 
</p>
<pre class="code">ps -aef | grep uuma</pre>

<p>
 There should be no uuma processes.
</p>

<p>
Now restart the UUMA application.
</p>
<pre class="code">./start_uumad.sh</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Check if UUMA Password Change is Working" [678-] -->