
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="aix_migration_from_version_53_to_71">AIX Migration from Version 5.3 to 7.1</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create proper change controls and paper work, get approvals from business, get apps contacts to manage applications etc. As Chris says <strong>The whole nine yards</strong></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=unix:backupconfig" class="wikilink1" title="unix:backupconfig">Perform the configuration backup</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Login to the respective NIM server ( taitc118 OR penmsv01. Note that taitc118 must be used for all systems other than the systems in Interexion). Define a variable with the target servername.<pre class="code">export nimclient_to=&quot;taerm057&quot;</pre>

<p>
Change the hostname accordingly.
</p>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Export the v7100-02-02 NFS EFixes from taitc118<pre class="code">sudo exportfs -i /prod/images/fixes/7100-02-02-1316-efixes</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Prepare the NIM environment for the migration<pre class="code">sudo nim -o bos_inst -a source=rte -a lpp_source=710TL02-02_lppsrc -a spot=710TL02-02_spot -a no_client_boot=yes -a accept_licenses=yes ${nimclient_to}</pre>
</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> For a system outside the Lincolnshire datacentre, do the following</div>
<ol>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=unix:tweaknimforworl" class="wikilink1" title="unix:tweaknimforworl">Tweak the NIM to avoid cross atlantic NIM installation</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Boot the server to SMS, setup to boot from the local server where we copied the lppsrc and spot.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> For a system in the Lincolnshire datacentre, do the following</div>
<ol>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Boot the server to SMS, setup IPL and perform a NIM boot.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> At this menu, change the language to the correct one. Set Option 5. “Selece Edition: to standard, and select the right disk Make sure you CHECK THE LANGUAGE Environment  (option 2) You should have checked this during the “Perform the configuration backup section”<pre class="code">                            Installation and Settings

 Either type 0 and press Enter to install with current settings, or type the
 number of the setting you want to change and press Enter.

    1  System Settings:
         Method of Installation.............Migration
         Disk Where You Want to Install.....hdisk0

    2  Primary Language Environment Settings (AFTER Install):
         Cultural Convention................English (United States)
         Language...........................English (United States)
         Keyboard...........................English (United States)
         Keyboard Type......................Alternate
    3  Security Model.......................Default
    4  More Options  (Software install options)
    5  Select Edition.......................standard
&gt;&gt;&gt; 0  Install with the settings listed above.

                       +-----------------------------------------------------
    88  Help ?         |  WARNING: Base Operating System Installation will
    99  Previous Menu  |destroy or impair recovery of SOME data on the
                       |destination disk hdisk0.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Choice [0]:</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> At this installation menu, choose <strong>1</strong><pre class="code">                            Migration Installation Confirmation

Disks:  hdisk0
Cultural Convention:  en_US
Language:  en_US
Keyboard:  en_US@alt
Import User Volume Groups:  yes
Enable System Backups to install any system:  yes
Remove Java 1.1.8 Software:  no
Selected Edition:  standard


&gt;&gt;&gt; 1   Continue with Install
                       +-----------------------------------------------------
    88  Help ?         |  WARNING: Base Operating System Installation will
    99  Previous Menu  |destroy or impair recovery of SOME data on the
                       |destination disk hdisk0.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Choice [1]:</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> At this menu choose <strong>0</strong><pre class="code">                                  Migration Confirmation

  Either type 0 and press Enter to continue the installation, or type the
  number of your choice and press Enter.

    1  List the saved Base System configuration files which will not be
       merged into the system.  These files are saved in /tmp/bos.
    2  List the filesets which will be removed and not replaced.
    3  List directories which will have all current contents removed.
    4  Reboot without migrating.

    Acceptance of license agreements is required before using system.
    You will be prompted to accept after the system reboots.

&gt;&gt;&gt; 0  Continue with the migration.
   88  Help ?

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  WARNING: Selected files, directories, and filesets (installable options)
    from the Base System will be removed.  Choose 2 or 3 for more information.


&gt;&gt;&gt; Choice[0]:</pre>

<p>
Ignore the error like this if installing a system outside of Lincolnshire
</p>
<pre class="code">nim_rcmd: getaddrinfo: Hostname and service name not provided or found
0042-001 nimclient: processing error encountered on &quot;master&quot;:
   0042-006 nimclient: (To_Master) rcmd Error 0</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The system reboots after the install. Check the oslevel<pre class="code">oslevel -s
7100-02-02-1316</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Restore the <abbr title="Secure Shell">SSH</abbr> host &amp; root keys you should have saved in Step 2 “Perform the configuration backup”<pre class="code">sudo /tmp/Pre_Upgrade/aix_upgrade/./RUNIT ./copy-etcssh-keys.sh</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check the SFTP line on <code>/etc/ssh/sshd_config</code> and fix it. It should be <code>/usr/sbin/sftp-server</code> instead of <code>/usr/libexec/sftp-server</code></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install any EFIXES on the lppsrc.<pre class="code">sudo mkdir -p /mnt/Efix ;sudo mount taitc118:/prod/images/fixes/7100-02-02-1316-efixes /mnt/Efix</pre>
<pre class="code">cd /mnt/Efix/NFS-EFIX</pre>
<pre class="code">./install.sh</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rboot the server as rquired by the Efix installation<pre class="code">sudo shutdown -Fr</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> After server reboots checkfor successfull Efix Installation<pre class="code">sudo emgr -P</pre>

<p>
Results should be 
</p>
<pre class="code">PACKAGE                                                  INSTALLER   LABEL
======================================================== =========== ==========
bos.net.nfs.client                                       installp    IV41838s2a
bos.mp64                                                 installp    IV41462s2a</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> For a system outside of the Lincolnshire datacentre do the following</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Login to NIM server taitc118, reset the NIM client and de-allocate all resources<pre class="code">nim -F -o reset taerm057
nim -o deallocate -a subclass=all {server you just upgraded}</pre>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Login to the local server where we setup the temporary NFS server and unexport the filesystems<pre class="code">exportfs -u /prod/nim/resources/spot/710TL02-02_spot/usr
exportfs -u /prod/nim/resources/lppsrc/710TL02-02
exportfs -u /export/nim/scripts/{server you just upgraded}.script</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Login to the NIM server and perform a NIM client cleanup<pre class="code">sudo nim -F -o reset &lt;hostname&gt;
sudo nim -o deallocate -a subclass=all</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
